# 2.4. Switch control - Work in progress

**Currently there are only exercises for Mac.**

This is only a short introduction to switch control. For more information, please refer to Resources section.

## What is switch control?

Switch control is an accessibility feature that enables people with limited mobility to interact with devices using alternative input methods. Instead of traditional touch or keyboard inputs, users can operate the device via [external switches](https://enablingdevices.com/blog/different-types-of-adaptive-switches-for-individuals-with-disabilities/) triggered by pressing with a hand, sipping and puffing, etc. Types of switch control include single-switch scanning, where one button cycles through options, and multi-switch systems, where each switch performs a specific action.

## Prerequisites

To complete the tasks in this section you need to activate switch control in your operating system. On Mac there is a built-in software that you can use.

## Exercises

### Exercise 1 - Turning on and off

1. Go to `System Preferences` -> `Accessibility` -> `Switch Control`.
2. Turn on the switch control by clicking on the `On` button.
3. Turn off the switch control by clicking on the `Off` button.

### Exercise 2 - Keyboard

1. Turn on the switch control.
2. Press `switch key` to start auto selection process
3. Wait until keyboard is highlighted and press `switch key`
4. Try to select <kbd>Tab</kbd> from the virtual keyboard
5. Turn off the switch control.

### Exercise 3 - Mouse clicks

1. Turn on the switch control
2. Press `switch key` to start auto selection process
3. Wait until mouse is highlighted and press `switch key`
4. Select `Left click` using `switch key`
5. Try to click something on the screen
6. Turn off the switch control

## Resources

- [List of different types of adaptive switches](https://enablingdevices.com/blog/different-types-of-adaptive-switches-for-individuals-with-disabilities/)
- [Switch device - A11y casts from Google](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1yoOLhx_qA)
- [Switch control - Apple support](https://support.apple.com/en-lk/guide/mac-help/mh43607/mac)
